Jeff/mmd 1261/add shortpaper (#120)
DataHighway-DHX/documentation: docs/whitepapers/shortpaper.mdx

---
id: shortpaper

> title: Shortpaper (DRAFT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: DataHighway's Shortpaper (DRAFT)
```

> sidebar_label: Shortpaper (DRAFT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: DataHighway's Shortpaper (DRAFT)
```

---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import TOCInline from '@theme/TOCInline';

--TODO: equations are being duplicated for unknown reasons. Also unable to add stylesheets for equations as outlined in https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/math-equations to the config file. This should be solved.

> <a href={useBaseUrl("/whitepapers/economic/shortpaper_latest.pdf")} target="_blank">Download Shortpaper</a>

Reviewer: has this file been generated yet? is it supposed to be in this PR?

Author: I'm going to remove this link. Better people don't download hard copies yet as the document isn't complete.

Blockchain enthusiasts can participate in the DataHighway blockchain through a concept called “mining”. DataHighway block confirmation is done through Nominated Proof-of-Stake (NPoS), however there are additional ways to earn the DataHighway token (DHX). DataHighway uses Proof-of-Participation (PoP) to provide DHX rewards to participants completing specific actions to support the DataHighway. These actions include promoting the DataHighway, connecting hardware with the DataHighway, and bonding DHX or other tokens supported by the DataHighway.

Blockchain enthusiasts can further participate in the **governance** of the DataHighway blockchain. DataHighway is a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), making it an organization run by the community holding the DHX token. Token holders can create referendums on the network outlining steps the DAO should take, such as items that should be developed or token allocations for specific marketing activities. These referendums will be voted on by the DataHighway community using the DHX token. It is by using this method that we ensure that those invested in the DataHighway will determine the future of the blockchain.

### AI Developers

> DataHighway integrates with [MXC Supernodes](https://www.mxc.org/mxc-supernode) to provide an end-to-end network of hardware devices collecting data, to a digital marketplace where data can be purchased. At the core of this network is blockchain integration, so developers can be certain that the data they are purchasing is accurate and reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataHighway integrates with [MXC Supernodes](https://www.mxc.org/mxc-supernode) to provide an end-to-end network of hardware devices that collect data and share it with a digital marketplace for purchase. At the core of this network is blockchain integration, so developers can be certain that the data they are purchasing is accurate and reliable.
```

## Mining DHX
Mining the DHX tokens can be done through a traditional mining approach by hosting a validator, becoming a nominator, or by interacting with and supporting the DataHighway. Traditional mining is done through block generation and confirmation by hosting a nominator or network validator. DataHighway adds additional mining opportunities using Proof-of-Participation (PoP).

By implementing PoP, DataHighway rewards participants for supporting the DataHighway blockchain. Each day 5000 DHX is generated and distributed among mining participants. A twenty-percent (20%) proportion of this 5000 DHX is allocated to validators and nominators. The remaining tokens are provided to the treasury to be distributed to the remaining miners through PoP. This distribution is determined by each participant’s Mining Power (mPower).

**All newly minted DHX has a cooling-off period of 7 days. During this time it will not be possible to bond, restake, withdraw or sell this DHX. **

### Validators and Nominators
Validators are the block builders of the DataHighway and are rewarded with 20 percent of all generated DHX.

> Validator trust is established using a nominated proof-of-stake (NPoS) model. Any person holding DHX is encouraged to act as a nominator by submitting to the validators they trust along and bonding DHX to these validators. If these validators are selected, then the validator and nominators receive a portion of the validator rewards. The validator owner decides what percentage of income should be shared with nominators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validator trust is established using a Nominated Proof-of-Stake (NPoS) model. Any person holding DHX is encouraged to act as a nominator by submitting to the validators they trust along and bonding DHX to these validators. If these validators are selected, then the validator and nominators receive a portion of the validator rewards. The validator owner decides what percentage of income should be shared with nominators.
```

Nominating a validator also holds a level of risk. If the validator behaves poorly, nominators and the validator will either have a portion of the bond slashed, or a portion of their potential rewards.

> If a nominator chooses to unbond their token, there is a cooldown period of 7 days. During this period they will not receive any bonding validator rewards and they will not be able to transfer their token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a nominator chooses to unbond their token, there is a cooldown period of 7 days. During this period they will not receive any staking rewards from bonding with validators and they will not be able to transfer their token.
```

            </p>
        </td>
        <td>ROI
            <p>
                (Profit Factor)
                <p>
                    Per Validator Per Year (Excluding MSB & MLB)
                </p>
            </p>
        </td>
        <td>ROI \
            (Profit Factor) \
            \
            Per Validator Per Year
            <p>
                (Including MSB & MLB)
            </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2020 - 2023
        </td>
        <td>1752
        </td>
        <td>2803.2
        </td>
        <td>120
        </td>
        <td>14.6
        </td>
        <td>23.36
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2024-2027
        </td>
        <td>876
        </td>
        <td>1401.6
        </td>
        <td>120
        </td>
        <td>7.3
        </td>
        <td>11.68
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2028 - 2031
        </td>
        <td>438
        </td>
        <td>700.8
        </td>
        <td>120
        </td>
        <td>3.65
        </td>
        <td>5.84
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>
*Table 1: Validator Estimated Combined ROI*

###Proof of Participation
#### The 10:1 Rule

> Mining DHX through Proof of Participation requires you to take an active role in DHX governance. To accomplish this, in order to mine DHX, you must first have DHX bonded to a governance council member. This bonded DHX functions as the “limiter” to your mining potential. In order to mine 1 DHX in one day, you need to have both enough mPower and 10 DHX bonded. The bonded DHX must also go through a 7 day cooling-off period. This means that to mine 1 DHX per day for a week, you would need to have 70 DHX bonded.

Reviewer: nitpick, i noticed we're using “ instead of ", and elsewhere ’ instead of ', but i'm not sure if it matters as it's not code

Author: We can leave as is for the moment (time). But yes would be good to clean it up.

$$
amountToMiner * 70 = bondedDhxRequired
$$
*Equation 1: Bonding requirement to eligible to mine DHX*

#### Understanding mPower
mPower is used to determine how mining rewards are distributed. By participating in different actions, you gain mPower. Your total resulting mPower is generally determined by combining two variables. These include:

Mining Base (MB)
Mining Speed Bonus (MSB)

Your mPower is equal to:
$$

> mPower = (MB MSB ) + MHB + SHM

Reviewer: what is `(MB MSB )`? is this a multiplication?

$$
*Equation 2: mPower Equation*

##### Mining Base (MB)
MB is the base mining amount and only applies to token mining (i.e. mining DHX by locking other tokens). The MB may vary depending on both the token and it’s value in relation to DHX.

Each category of mining has its own role to play on the DHX blockchain. Tokens can be voted into different categories through governance. Each category of mining has a different “category multiplier” (CM), determining how much mPower you will get based on the amount of token you have locked.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Token Category
        </td>
        <td>CM
        </td>
        <td>Equation
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 1 (DHX, MXC)
        </td>
        <td>1.0
        </td>
        <td>

>             MB =sumToken * M

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            MB = sumToken * M
```

        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 2 (E.IOTA, DOT)
        </td>
        <td>0.2
        </td>
        <td rowspan="2" >

>             MB =sumToken * M * min(dhxExchangeRate, 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            MB = sumToken * M * min(dhxExchangeRate, 1)
```

        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 3 (H.BTC, Filecoin, OKB)
        </td>
        <td>0.1
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>
*Table 3: Calculating Mining Boost (MB) based on Token Categories*

The DHX exchange rate will initially be determined using the API provided by CoinGecko. Following this, DHX will use a series of Oracles to individually confirm the exchange rate.

> E.IOTA is a pegged ERC20 IOTA token. In order to participate with IOTA, a user will signal their IOTA holdings using their IOTA wallet. E.IOTA will then be assigned to the user for their use in DHX mining until the original IOTA wallet balance changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.IOTA is a pegged ERC-20 IOTA token. In order to participate with IOTA, a user will signal their IOTA holdings using their IOTA wallet. E.IOTA will then be assigned to the user for their use in DHX mining until the original IOTA wallet balance changes.
```

H.BTC is Huobi BTC, and functions much in the same way as E.IOTA.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ##### Secure Mining Hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Secure Hardware Mining
```

:::tip

> This is a proposal to provide direct MB to secure mining hardware, in contrast to only providing a MSB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a proposal to directly apply MB to SHM, in contrast to only providing a MSB
```

:::

> Secure Hardware Mining is an essential part of building the DataHighway, and therefore receives its own MB. The MB per secure hardware mining device is unique to that device, and is determined through governance. Once a secure hardware mining device is accepted, the MB additional provided by this device will not change unless it no longer meets one of the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SHM is an essential part of building the DataHighway, and therefore receives its own MB. The MB per SHM device is unique to that device, and is determined through governance. Once a SHM device is accepted, the MB additional provided by this device will not change unless it no longer meets one of the following requirements:
```

* Receives regular security updates (defined as quarterly updates)

> * Etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* etc
```

##### Mining Speed Bonus (MSB)

A MSB applies to both ICBAM* (token mining) and Non-ICBAM** (e.g. hardware, development, advocacy and governance mining).

MSB is calculated by summing the Mining Duration Bonus (MDB), and the Mining Diversity Threshold (MDT):

$$

> MSB =1+ Σ(MDB, MDT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSB = 1 + Σ(MDB, MDT)
```

$$
min(mPower, HW#  1,000,000)
$$

*Equation 6: Calculating the Mining Hardware Bonus (MHB)*

Each mPower unit can be boosted only by 1 HW device, e.g. if we have 200k mPower from our Category 1 tokens and two Category 1 HW devices then the total mPower will equal 400k (since a MF of 2 is applied from Table 5), as only the 1st HW device may be boosted ***.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Hardware Category
        </td>
        <td>Mining Factor (MF)
        </td>
        <td>Max amount of mPower that can apply per gateway (maxA)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 1
        </td>
        <td>2
        </td>
        <td>
            1 millionmin(dhxExchangeRate, 1)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 2
        </td>
        <td>1.5
        </td>
        <td>
            500,000min(dhxExchangeRate, 1)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Category 3
        </td>
        <td>1.25
        </td>
        <td>
            250,000 min(dhxExchangeRate, 1)
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

*Table 5: Calculating Mining Hardware Bonus (MHB) using Hardware Category*

:::caution
Equation formatting is wrong
:::
$$

> MHB = (MB MDB )( MF * HW# - 1)		if  MHB < (maxA * HW#)

Reviewer: what is `(MB MDB )` is that a multiplication?
should the multiplication be shown more clearly as `(MB MDB )( MF * HW# - 1)` be `(MB MDB ) * ( MF * HW# - 1)`?

MHB = maxA * HW#					else
$$

### Signalling
:::caution
This section needs work.
:::
Token Miners that wish to only signal (rather than locking) attract 10% of the lowest boost percentage associated with a MDB duration bonus multiplier.

e.g. if a user locked Category 1 tokens for 12 months then the MDB’s duration bonus multiplier from Table 4 would be 1.2 (20% boost), however if they chose to signal them instead then only 10% of that multiplier would apply, so they would get 1.02 (2% boost) instead.

### Developer Mining
:::caution
This section needs work.
:::

> Incubate runtime and decentralised app (dApp) development on DataHighway through DHX funding (e.g. dApps, bounties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incubate runtime and decentralised App (dApp) development on DataHighway through DHX funding (e.g. dApps, bounties).
```

### Advocacy Mining
:::caution
This section needs work.
:::

## DataHighway DAO

> DataHighway functions autonomously as a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO). Each organizational decision for the DataHighway will be made by the individuals participating in the network. In this way a business or development referendum can be made that is then voted on by the community using the DHX token. When a referendum is approved, the proposed bounty for that action can then be claimed by the individual or organization that completes that task that is then accepted by the community. In this way, the community not only decides how DataHighway will function, it also has further opportunities to earn DHX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataHighway shall function autonomously as a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO). Each organizational decision for the DataHighway will be made by the individuals participating in the network. In this way a business or development referendum can be made that is then voted on by the community using DHX tokens. When a referendum is approved, the proposed bounty for that action can then be claimed by the individual or organization that completes that task that is then accepted by the community. In this way, the community not only decides how DataHighway will function, it also has further opportunities to earn DHX.
```

> Naturally to stimulate the promotion and development of the DataHighway, 30% of the total genesis DHX supply will be assigned as unlocked reserves in the DHX Treasury.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naturally to stimulate the promotion and development of the DataHighway, 30% of the total genesis DHX supply has been assigned as unlocked reserves in the DHX Treasury.
```

#### Economic Configuration

> The initial economic variables shown in the table below were decided upon through optioneering and may be configured. The DHX DAO may elect to make a protocol change these economic variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial economic variables shown in the table below were decided upon through optioneering and may be further configured. The DHX DAO may elect to make a protocol change these economic variables.
```

        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Block Reward Treasury Fees (percent of Annual Supply)
        </td>
        <td>80%
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Halving Cycle Duration (Years)
        </td>
        <td>4
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

*Table 5: DataHighway Economic Variables*

The issuance of the DHX token is through either:

* Block Authoring / Production Rewards - DHX distributed to NPoS Validators for producing a block
* Unfreezing DAO Treasury Unlocked Reserves - DHX entitlements claimed through DAO approval in a democratic way
* Decentralised / Centralized Exchange - DHX exchanged for other assets

#### Treasury
At genesis, the treasury will hold 30% of the genesis total supply of DHX. These tokens are to be used for the promotion and further development of the DataHighway. In order for these tokens to be distributed, a referendum must be created and accepted with stakeholder consensus through the Governance process.

The treasury is also the source of token rewards for PoP mining activities. During block development, 80% of all created DHX is then assigned to the treasury to be distributed through PoP based on participants’ mPower.

> The max amount of DHX distributed for PoP proposals is less than 1000 per day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maximum amount of DHX distributed for PoP proposals is less than 1000 per day.
```

        </td>
        <td>2
        </td>
        <td>0.5
        </td>
        <td>0.125
        </td>
        <td>60145000
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2026
        </td>
        <td>2
        </td>
        <td>0.5
        </td>
        <td>0.125
        </td>
        <td>59159500
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2027
        </td>
        <td>2
        </td>
        <td>0.5
        </td>
        <td>0.125
        </td>
        <td>58174000
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2028
        </td>
        <td>3
        </td>
        <td>0.25
        </td>
        <td>0.0625
        </td>
        <td>57681250
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2029
        </td>
        <td>3
        </td>
        <td>0.25
        </td>
        <td>0.0625
        </td>
        <td>57188500
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2030
        </td>
        <td>3
        </td>
        <td>0.25
        </td>
        <td>0.0625
        </td>
        <td>56695750
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>
Note: Calculations after 2030 are not shown for brevity.
*Table 6: DataHighway Initial Token Issuance Halving Inflation Strategy Cycle*

### Governance

> All DHX DAO decisions shall be made through on-chain governance once Sudo is removed, and will function much in the same way as [Polkadot Governance](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-governance), with some exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All DHX DAO decisions shall be made through on-chain governance once the temporary Sudo and a Multisig control of the DHX DAO Treasury Unlocked Reserves are removed, and will function much in the same way as [Polkadot Governance](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-governance), with some exceptions.
```

Participation in DataHighway Governance is required in order to take advantage of PoP mining. This participation takes the form of bonding DHX to a council member, or potential council member. This bonded DHX helps to ensure that all participants in the DataHighway work together to determine who should be on the council. If a council member is not chosen, and is not shortlisted, DHX tokens belonging to the participant that they bonded will be unbonded and returned to them automatically. They must then rebond those tokens to a different council member or candidate in order to continue PoP mining.

##### Governance through MXC Supernodes a broker:

> Each MXC Supernode is viewed as a single identity on the DataHighway, thereby acting as a broker for all participants that have chosen them. When mining on an MXCSupernode, a portion of each participants’ mPower goes to a council chair, who then acts as a proxy on behalf of them when determining how an MXC Supernode will vote on a referendum. All council chairs will be required to vote on each referendum, otherwise the council chair benefit will be slashed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each MXC Supernode is viewed as a single identity on the DataHighway, thereby acting as a broker for all participants that have chosen them. When mining on an MXC Supernode, a portion of each participants’ mPower goes to a council chair, who then acts as a proxy on behalf of them when determining how an MXC Supernode will vote on a referendum. All council chairs will be required to vote on each referendum, otherwise the council chair benefit will be slashed.
```

> Once the participant votes are tallied for an MXC Supernode, its council chair will submit its vote using the DHX tokens that participants bondedusing the 10:1 rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once participant votes are tallied for an MXC Supernode, its council chair will submit its vote using the DHX tokens that participants bonded using the 10:1 rule.
```

If there are multiple councils on an MXC Supernode, then the council with the most mPower on that MXC Supernode will be determined as its "Primary Council". The vote from that MXC Supernode will be automatically cast based on the decision of its Primary Council.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
